---
layout: post
title: Firebombing of Tokyo during World War II
desc: "This is just some thoughts on the usage of napalm on civilian populations during World War II."
keywords: "napalm,japan,ww2,world war 2,tokyo,09MAR1945"
---

Being a US Veteran and of American/Japanese descent, I have mixed feelings about some aspects of World War II.  While I did not actually get deployed to an active war zone, I was in active duty during a timeframe determined by Congress to be eligible to join a VFW.  I would not of joined one since I was never deployed and take away from those who were.  But when the VFW determined that it was acceptable for our government to take US citizens of Japanese descent and send them all internment camps during the war, I decided I could not be a part of an organization that supported that which we should abhor as a nation.  On the other hand, I do support that decision to drop nuclear weapons in the hope that we could save US soldiers lives.  It was wrong to target civilian targets and you can argue the reasons were more nefarious, but the war ended.

So what follows is a partial listing of B-29 bombing raids against Tokyo.
* 24 NOV 1944 - aircraft factory on edge of city
* 27 NOV 1944 - docks, **urban areas**, targets of opportunity
* 29-30 NOV 1944 - 2 incendiary (napalm) raids on industrial areas
* 19 FEB 1945 - ports and **urban areas**
* 24 FEB 1945
* 25 FEB 1945 - incendiaries to destroy 28,000 buildings
* 04 MAR 1945 - **urban areas**
* 09 MAR 1945 - incendiaries on **urban areas** to destroy 267,000 buildings and killing roughly 100,000 people
* 02 APR 1945 - Nakajima aircraft factory
* 03 APR 1945 - Koizuma aircraft factory and **urban areas**
* 13 APR 1945 - arsenal area
* 20 JUL 1945 - attempt to drop pumpkin bomb on Imperial Palace but missed
* 08 AUG 1945 - aircraft factory and arsenal
* 10 AUG 1945 - arsenal complex

One of the raids that is often ignored in discussions of World War II is the one that happened on March 9th.  279 B-29 bombers dropped 1,665 tons of ordinance on civilian areas.  That *ordinance* was mostly 500-pound E-46 cluster bombs that then dropped 38 napalm carrying M-69s.  Ever seen napalm burn?  It is nasty stuff.  Those M-69 bombs would punch through a tin roof then start spurting out napalm everywhere.  Napalm was chosen because military commanders at the time knew residential buildings at the time in Japan were mostly paper and wood structures.

The estimates say 15.8 square miles of the city was destroyed and 100,000 people died.  Those estimates are typically considered low since on average there were 103,000 people living per square mile in Tokyo, peaking at 135,000 per.  During that time it was the highest density of an industrial city in the world and the firefighting capabilities of the day were not nearly adequate.

In comparison, the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki are only estimated to of killed 126,000 people...
